
Used Gravitrons Quarterly
Issue 01
April 2010
Minister Plenipotentiary
James Welch
Editor
Shea Newton
Cover Art
Keith Zimmerman
 
Website
www.usedgrvitrons.com
Designed By Wes Morishita
Email
usedgravitrons@gmail.com
Copyright 
All works © the respective authors. 
Other material © Used Gravitrons Quarterly
Contents
Editorial.......................................................................................................................5
Shea Newton
In the Beginning...................................................................................................6
James Welch
Fiction
A Short Film Starring Shelly Duvall and Steven Gere.....9
Steven Gere
One Fiction..............................................................................................................10
Bill Gates
Two Fictions............................................................................................................20
Bill Gates
Dream...........................................................................................................................21 
Bruce Connors
Six Pack, One Draft, Improvised Fiction.........................................25
P.A. Valle
The Chronicles of Tim, Part One............................................................31
Mike Wiley
Poetry
Aside, anywhere....................................................................................................7
Nathan Moody
Guests...........................................................................................................................19
Nathan Moody
Two Poems.................................................................................................................24 
Matt Hayes
Modesto........................................................................................................................30 
Bruce Connors
Homie Don't Play That.....................................................................................17
Keith Zimmerman
Photography
Phone Booths..........................................................................................................11
Eamonn Park
Contributors.............................................................................................................38
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 5
Editors Note
Compiling this first issue of Used Gravitrons, I've enjoyed dwelling on the 
confused smiles exchanged while on the ride when the skin of my lips and cheeks 
would pull back to expose my molars and the height of my gums. I've remembered the 
strange delighted confusion that I stumbled in for hours after the ride.  
Try and explain the appeal of being forced into the wall of a machine that smells 
like gasoline, onion rings and sweat. Add to that a reputation for spinning apart or 
ejecting children on loose panels. The content of this issue represents our attempt. It is 
all at once disconcerting, bizarre, happy, noisy and hilarious. 
To everyone who has made it possible, thank you. 
 - Shea Newton
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 6
In the Beginning
 - James Welch
The words were first spoken in the upstairs of the Annex. Two pitchers of Terminator 
Stout, one of Ruby Red, and a couple of packs of blues, “A used Gravitron! We've got to 
get ourselves one!”  The idea was planted. From there we decided one would not be 
enough, but a train of interconnecting Gravitrons. A hall of presidents, with, ferrets and 
weasels as the live in residents. The idea of getting a train with a few boxcars seemed 
easy enough. Drive a hundred miles or so on an interstate and there is an old 
locomotive, rusted, with at least eight cars which haven't seen the tracks in years. The 
framed portraits for the hall of presidents could be gathered easy enough from any 
statehouse, border crossing, government building, gun or gold store. This left the 
Gravitron. We had no idea where we could wrangle up any Gravitrons, let alone a single 
Gravitron. So we furthered the plans of “The Hall of Presidents” McKinley would have a 
constant stream of ferrets flowing through his mouth, Wilson would have laser beams 
of weasels shooting from his glasses, and a black-light portrait of Van Buren.
It's been three years since the plan for a train of Gravitrons was proposed, and alas, 
one has been found. It will not be sitting on a nine car train, there will be no door 
controlled by hydraulic pumps, there's no D.J. in a center circle hyping up the crowd 
on this Gravitron. We've found a slightly used Gravitron,  low miles, strong bearings, 
and the ability to be towed or placed inside an 88 Volvo wagon. This is a slightly 
different ride without the side effects which may include, diarrhea, vomiting, nausea, 
nose bleeds, child birth, and death. Hopefully.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 7
Aside, anywhere
 - Nathan Moody
I like to think
of
1950’s Russia
small dog children
bomb facades 
toiletry displays
A corp of engineers
making blueprints
of freckled hands,
yours.
Detergent.
As we drift through
aisles of familiar Lysol,
perfume calcifying lungs
as we shuffle the cart.
One wheel dyslexic
gyrates
grinds out a tune, 
and rifts a mirror floor
into reflections of toddler-hood.
A hand, my hand 
goes for broke 
into the center
of your back.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 8
A smear of spun honey
onto churning muscle, 
bulk spaghetti tendons
that link spinal
cans of albacore.
I wish it were 
Antelope season, 
there would be a buck
grazing near the deli.
The shopping list
in your hand
a blind.
I wish it were any season
here, megamart 
somewhere.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 9
A Short Film Starring Shelly Duvall and Stephen Gere
 - Stephen Gere
He knocked on the door. There was music playing inside. He recognized the song 
and began fidgeting to it a little. The door opened and she stood there for awhile. 
"Can I come in?" he said.
Her eyes fell as she turned to the bathroom to continue with some beautification. 
He followed her to the mirror. They both watched her brush her hair.
"I'm tired of this," she said.
"Me too," he said. His eyes passed from her hair down one of her arms, to her 
hips.
She continued, "Every time we try to talk you say the same things. I can't change 
any of that."
"I say those things in self-defense," he said.
"From me?" she asked.
"Well it's like a preemptive defense, you know? I realize I'm an asshole but I'm 
only trying to protect myself."
"I'm sick of all your excuses."
"I'm not justifying myself. I'm just saying how it is."
She walked to the bed and laid down staring at the ceiling. "I don't know 
anymore," she said.
He put his hands in his pockets and hovered over her. He nervously glanced 
around the room.
"I've got to get out of this town," he said. "It's just so incestuous...everyone has 
their headup everyone else's asses. I've got to catch the bus."
"Bye," she said as she rolled onto her side.
"Bye," he said, already walking down the stairs.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 10
One Fiction
 - Bill Gates
My grandma on my mom's side never spoke to me directly about her sexual 
orientation, she was raised in a Mormon family and has a deep faith in it, but my 
grandmother being born a lesbian had us all in for a wild ride. She married a man I 
never really got to know but none-the-less became my grandpa (I'm not sure if he's 
Mormon ). Together they made my mom my aunt my aunt and my uncle, in part (I 
think) because of grandma's not feeling safe to come out of the closet. This continues 
to blow my mind, that I wouldn't be here had it not been for the oppressive nature of 
the Mormon church. Or maybe grandma just wanted a big family to love (which she 
does). Another strange thing about my being here is that my parents were swinging 
with another couple in Montana on the night of my conception. The size of sperm is 
incredible and the other dude's juice musta mixed at least a little bit with my father's. I 
remember my mom telling me that on the night of my conception she tried to wash all 
the sperm out then she'd say, "But you were strong". I'm a complete accident.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 11
The purpose of this series of photographs is to serve as an ode to the days of 
beepers and starter jackets, drug deals and most of all, pay phones.  The act of paying 
by coin to place a single call will not make a come back, it will not resurge with 
exaggerated nostalgia like vinyl and Volvos. Soon, pay phones will be gone forever. My 
experience with this project is that they are already becoming hard to find. To pay 
phones, I say goodbye and good riddance, you will be gone but not forgotten. 
Regards,
Eamonn Parke
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 12
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 13
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 14
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 15
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 16
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 17
Homie Don't Play That
 - Keith Zimmerman
When I was a small boy growing up, I thought that athletes, superheroes and 
Bible characters were all the same. John Elway and Captain America, for me, held the 
same basic appeal; watching Cap’ and the Invaders fight off the Nazi scourge to protect 
the USA and the world at large was almost as exciting as watching Elway slice and dice 
a tough Raiders defense to preserve the Broncos’ spot in the playoffs. The only thing 
more miraculous than Moses parting the Red Sea was Michael Jordan’s famous dunk 
from the free throw line. 
  How the blending of these respective mythos occurred is still unclear to me, and 
if my parents attempted to clarify my perspective, I don’t remember. Perhaps the 
clearest example of this interdisciplinary integration was the ice cream bucket that 
contained the clippings I cut from comics, newspapers and illustrated Bibles (that my 
mom let me defile Bibles in this manner still surprises and shocks me now). I arranged 
the cut-outs on butcher paper, glued them down, and made comics out of the pre-
existing images (I would later draw comics for years and years). I was a kid, and the 
belief that men could turn one loaf of bread into many, score nine points in six seconds 
or shoot laser beams from their eyes was thrilling. I probably wouldn’t have responded 
to any clarification anyway. 
  By the time junior high and puberty hit, team sports held less and less interest 
for me. This was partly because my teammates in football began to ostracize me for 
skateboarding and my skater friends hated that I played football, partly because the 
Denver Broncos lost three Super Bowls in four years (all by abysmally, embarrassingly 
wide margins), and partly because I was getting high a lot. Like most kids that age, I felt 
I had to lay a stake, define who I was, and that was largely accomplished through a 
series of choices I probably thought of as ‘growing up’ at the time. Glenn Danzig and 
the Misfits replaced John Elway and the Broncos (*cough*).The Punisher and 
Longshot seemed less interesting than R Crumb and Daniel Clowes. I no longer 
believed in God.
  The focus of my idolatry had shifted to artists.
-----------
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 18
I will never, ever, forget the theme song for the NBA on NBC. Those horns and 
synthesizers were indelibly tattooed in my soul sometime in high school, when pro 
basketball became my secret Saturday and Sunday morning sanctuary, Amazing 
Grace and Scooby Doo theme song be damned.  Remember when it was Shaq and 
Penny? Rik Smits and Reggie? Gary Payton and Rainman? Ahmad Rashad, Bob 
Costas, Peter Vescey and Marv Albert (the greatest announcer, without question, of all 
time) were apostles, spreading the good word. “YES! A FACIAL! It counts, AND ONE!” 
Music, drugs, drawing and skateboarding filled the rest of my week, and these 
things seemed to go together, seemed of a piece, and were thought of as being cool, I 
guess, among my friends. I mean, I might’ve argued about the artistic merits of the 
Ramones as opposed to the Velvet Underground (Lou Reed and John Cale equal Shaq 
and Kobe, by the way, and Andy Warhol is Phil Jackson), but no one would call me out 
for actually liking music. I never talked to my friends about sports (nor did I tell them 
that I loved OMD or the Cure) because I realized that it was one thing to be outcast by 
the jocks I played football with, but quite another to be outcast by outcasts. But it was 
the same thing, really: I didn’t play music, I didn’t play sports, but I got lost in these 
worlds and felt like I was a part of them. I listened to and watched and fetishized the 
players/ teammates/ bands/ teams/ conferences/ genres/ stars etc. ad infinitum. Let 
me tell you, the New York Knicks in 1995 were just as scary and dangerous as the New 
York Dolls in 1975.
-----------
Anyway,  this explanation by way of autobiography may be unnecessary. Ever 
since Dennis Rodman, with his hair and tattoos, basketball players are more punk 
rock than punk rock. People tell me that the best high school skaters are now the 
popular kids in high school. So things have changed.
-----------
 Carmelo’s dunks give me faith in man, Bobby Womack’s voice allows me to 
believe in God.
Really, how many loaves of bread is that?
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 19
Guests
- Nathan Moody
It has been years
since the patio
held seats.
Timid, I want hanging lights in the trees,
paper Japanese globes
thin paper shades.
On the fence wobble children's faces
hoping for color in the elm.
 
  
 
 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 20
Two Fictions 
 - Bill Gates
1.
Too close for discomfort: I control other people cause a space ship is controlling me, the 
space ship knows this cause I know this. What the U.F.O exists by is unwanted fear, I 
know this because I've been given no choice but to want any fear that appears in me. 
Other people who are afraid of fear are quite common because love (being the opposite 
of fear) feels nicer but cannot exist (being the opposite of fear) w/out fear. It's all one's 
and zero's until I find the U.F.O. to be identifiable as nothing. Knowing nothing doesn't 
matter is like saying matter is nothing. I found this out when the U.F.O. turned out to 
be "Satan" the rebel angel who wants love to stop lying about it's existence, and he's 
any dog that got kicked by man and decided to bite back. I'm out of control because 
nothing's in control, but nothing only knows itself by something, so could be nature 
(including U.F.O.'s) is in control. 
Every time I say fuck I know that freedom is a four letter word.
2.
1st there was fear then god decided not to be afraid of her self and in that moment is 
the virgin birth of mystery     mystery doesn't think its god because it finds itself 
unpleasant     one day mystery turned into knight to see if itself and this very moment 
is forever finding out that theres no reason to fight itself that fear is perfect from now 
on and never only finds itself
 
 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 21
Dream
 - Bruce Connors
1.
Digress all the way back up the mountain
My whole life is bullshit
Filling up crevasses and couloirs
Nickel and diming me to death
A brief vignette of something I’d like you all to know: 
2.
To the last great Altas
Giles Corey lies under a pile of stones
Panting, crushed. We sat on his chest to smother him.
First we burned up Joan of Arc & called her heretic
Later we made her a saint.
3. 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 22
Caralina forgot where her inhaler was
Had an asthma attack, drowned in her lungs
She won’t make that mistake again.
One half of death is forgetting to be alive
4.
A freshly plucked chicken, a hangman’s noose
Alliterations, anti-aircraft fire, arts & crafts
Autumn falling out stumbling
Rickshaw, rope, angles, vices, radar, rules, gore
5.
I’d like to tell you a universal truth 
I’d like to tell you a lot of things
I’d like to talk to you from inside a column of fire
I’ll have you taxidermied and use you as
A door stop.
6. 
The results of the tests are not good
Said the doctor while making a left hand turn
His cell phone beeps, low battery, a mild oath
A return to the start of prudence
Doctors lie to make you seem better
But you can taste death from far away.
7.
When we find out who’s at the door
Crestfallen we turn away while
Little lights blink blue and white
The sky’s orange & pregnant
With snow.
8.
While composing at Lascaux
Out the entrance I threw down the brush
The perspective, the shade, the nuance, 
the je ne sais quoi. As an artist and a caveman
I wanted to really capture the mammoth
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 23
9.
Expensive cocktails, wine, juice, blood
Hang-ups, glass condoms, pubic lice
CD cases, Deutscher keywords
Wigs for clowns with tumors, memorial
Lockets stuffed with hair, a drizzle of caramel
On a toasted almond crust.
10.
Not long after the cat got AIDS, he
Stopped grooming himself, ordered pay-
Per-view knowing deceased he would not pay back
Faster then the atoms that make up superman
He grew content, bloated, liquefied, burst, decayed.
Itemized deductions, the master thought;
Meanwhile the cat mastered being dead.
11.
We called him Guapo Pendejo
He was a good friend, which made it
All that much more difficult to testify against him.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 24
Two Poems 
 - Matt Hayes
Take pages and sip iced sip
And freeze that word chasm still.
Find that eye sore;
Eye spot;
Third eye in the worn-bottom khaki pocket.
Wait for the eighth bar and slumber;
Wake; via whiskey-splash on the brass apple under your chin.
Meanwhile, tapping that tumorstick on the edge of your urn.
--------------------------------------------
Sit and sulk about the foil baggage,
Hold your breath and breathe.
Wring around the possible anchor,
Downstream and soaking.
Ready, stamp out, hold out, kill.
Settle in and fill out.
Wrestle with down-tempo roots, sift through it,
Rumble.
Rough up the silk screen with yellowrusted fingers
With it, crumble, shock value, handle.
Electric candle holds the smoke stack mantra.
Spill it.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 25
Six Beers, One Draft, Improvised Fiction
  - P.A. Valle
Beer #1
The blackened fireproof box was the only thing that had survived besides Helen. 
According to the fireman everything else had been beyond salvageable. Marooned as 
time and circumstance had chosen, she stopped at a Rite-Aid on the way to her motel 
to purchase a key for the lock which held her from the last remnant of her son.
It took over an hour and two stoic bangings from the adjacent room to hammer away 
the lock. The first item in sight was a baggie filled with marijuana. Directly beneath the 
baggie were some upside-down photos of a homely teenage girl in front of a mirror, a 
camera in hand and skivvies that would have covered a girl half her size. Beneath the 
photos lay a little auburn book. Helen halted her hand for a moment concerned with 
dishonoring the dead, then she allowed her hand to plunge to make up for wasted 
discretion.
Beer #2
Our small boat moved through what seemed like a silent sewer. The walls were lit with 
a soft green as if our silent city had complained of rape on our golden brick roads. I 
could feel her skin and hair caress me from across the boat. Why she had allowed me 
to come in the first place I wasn't sure. There had never been any question that she 
deserved better. At least someone with more conviction or a thicker moral thread.
We never moved for hours as the small brick sidewalks played a monotonous tune for 
for our eyes. Had they been less droll I could have stolen more looks upon her. I can no 
longer remember her true image but only the feeling of her presence.
As if we had never been alone the boat shook with ripples in the water that turned to 
knobs covered in scales. In a single motion we jumped from the boat to the blackened-
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 26
green bricks and were running up steep stairs in a thin corridor towards a room as a 
window. Upon arrival we were ecstatic to find a wooden door, and sat with the 
assurance of its click of defense. We shivered with warmth staring at the ground, 
allowing the small room to grow with our shortened breath. Our eyes had drifted 
together towards the door and its gap at the bottom that grew with acknowledgement. 
Our hearts hastened with the click of claws on the brick staircase. Malicious breath 
was forced into the room making way for the nostrils and teeth that pushed it as the 
gap grew. In frenzied despair we threw milk crates toward the gap to quell the flood of 
pursuit. The gap was satiable and gave up as soon as we had fed it our assistance. 
Before I had seen eyes or a head I felt the tail of the assailant shrink the tiny room to a 
closet. Unsure if it was my own hand or hers there was contact made with a body of 
scales and a silent scream. Before the beast had time to fall it was climbing the stairs 
to our milk crate cage.
Beer #3
It had started with her milky skin running from the portcullis. Her mother soon 
stormed past my lawn chair into the open side door. I had known the outcome without 
even knowing myself. There was a gunshot followed with clumsy silence. My roommate 
did not exit and I wished for the shaded step of the the door to remain as it was as I 
decayed into ether with regret. I could have stopped her, I knew her fate, now I couldn't 
even control my own.
When the two dimensional figure appeared at the base of the driveway I knew we 
would be jumping the broken fences we found in abandoned fields. Sometimes it was 
quicker to kick our way through the rotten wood then to heave ourselves over the giant 
privacy of voles and feral cats. The sharp edges of our shaded black and white pursuer 
seemed to manifest itself inches behind our escape with sadistic glee.
My moral threads had led me here, where I would chase freedom forever until I 
perished unfulfilled. There was some point where I could have chosen to stay in my 
lawn chair. I could have told her that he was out. I could have tried to ask her out and 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 27
we could have gotten on our bikes and ridden away. Maybe if I had quelled her mother 
with false stories to buy my conscience time, I could be swimming oceans rather that 
leaping in an endless desert of fields, searching for a plank of wood to reveal a way to 
change the past. This figure was our future and my roommate was remorseless. He was 
my catalyst. He was my excuse to mourn. So why couldn't I escape myself?
Beer #4
When they imposed a tax on the emissions I left while chasing her shadow, I switched 
to a bicycle. Even though my pace had slowed her shadow remained in sight. It had 
always stayed just within sight. As I turned the corner of the shaded suburban block I 
would catch her turning, leading me to her. It wasn't parasitic as they claimed, without 
me she wouldn't have existed. We were symbiotic. I knew I knew she needed me, or else 
she would have sped off, or else she would have stopped completely to tell me she 
didn't care.
How the sun was always setting I never knew or questioned. I just assumed that sepia 
was our color, a mood she chose, and a mood I'd loved before I'd known emotion. 
Through thin veneers we played this game. Had she stopped or ran off I would have 
ceased and never known desire. 
In a dream I remember riding side by side with her and her skin had painted the sky 
summer. The ache I felt in life was gone and she was existence. To stop, slow, or speed 
up was suicide. As we rode together I could feel her hair envelop my body with warmth. 
Church bells rang as we rode through bell towers and guffawed at futility. I no longer 
existed, but was her existing.
To awake to have to chase her again was a hell, but to let her die was suicide. If I 
couldn't bask in her warmth then I must chase for the chance to continually pass in 
her setting.
We covered the world in laps of our suburban desert. No one was ever present and our 
future and present never existed. We rejoiced in solace. Her shadow is my last image. I 
don't remember who stopped first, or if we both perished.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 28
Beer #5
My first memory is of my brothers. We were only related through shadowed blood. The 
noise of the calamitous horde was progressing from the front of the stair to the 
stockroom we were holed in. We were lucky that the only entrance was from the alley 
way in back. This comfort was washed away with the horde's community effort to 
surround. We had been sheathed under the guise of an orphanage, but the blood loss 
had led to questions which led to rage.
Our creator had fled, leaving children in the wake of his ebbing destruction. We sat 
motionless waiting for the savior we had come to expect. Either someone spoke up or 
we unanimously decided it was time to flee and in regimented action we stood as a 
collective. Our skin pale as our outlook, and veins as thin as our chance we spread 
amongst the crates waiting for one to tip the scales. In response to the fists beating on 
the steel door it swung from a shadowed wind and we pushed forward through the 
crowd. All of us able scaled the outside brick walls to the roof, followed by fear. We leapt 
in pursuit of freedom that was pursued by a veiled guarantee of failure. 
I don't remember when when my arm had fallen to myself, but it suddenly felt as if it 
had always been. Fanged teeth and the lust for progress now felt sophomoric and 
futile. I leapt from rooftop to rooftop the perpetual escapee. I felt the shingles beneath 
my claws shift from tar to brick to sand, and before I could breathe I was gripping the 
wire of a cage which stood miles high. Waves lapped at the alcoholic holds of the cage 
as I teetered atop my demise.
Where had my solace gone? The horde stood on the beach of sand waiting for the turn 
of tides as mongeese, raccoons and vacuums climbed the sides of my prison. If I 
jumped would the papers know the full story? Would I be chalked onto a blackboard 
as a fact, percentage, or statistic? No, I must survive to show I'm more than what I am. 
So I fought, clawed, beat my infant wings against futility. I fought until the warmth of 
the infant sun hit my scales and at once I was ash which had never existed.
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 29
Beer #6
To catch wildlife in true spirit is chance paired with patience. I might claim myself to be 
a dam buster but a lifetime of resistance is only chasing a shadow. The shadow is 
chalk on which I climb with hope that it believes in my ascent. I claw into the sides of 
wildlife hoping to appease the creator. This creator will also chase me from safety to 
danger. You are my creator and have forced me to fear. You watch to witness my true 
spirit and suffer in the observance of my struggle.
I've failed mother, the chalk has scribbled scales on the wall in the wake of my loss. 
They teetered as I fell, and followed suit as I hit the ground. I know you waited, but you 
might have been safer waiting on yourself. The love of our family can't be trivial if our 
hopes have always followed shadows of our past in hopes to gain access to the key of 
our future. 
In short she asked me to yield, and I fell from the rotten fence of escape into the hands 
of a brotherhood of black and white two-dimensional figures of acceptance. I am now 
trapped in my demise, never allowed to perish. I've cursed myself and you to endless 
pursuit. If only a fire could release this desert of its oasis...  
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 30
Modesto
 - Bruce Connors
holding up the mystic sword of power
I proceeded into the light
Modesto
A poem by Erick Jobson
Holding up my dying dog
a Pomeranian with a heart of gold
they were four golden ventricles and a pace
maker gilt. 
Erick
A poem by the ideas
Joe arrived home late that night. His lover was already asleep.
“I have a problem with you – it, that
dog it pissed and shit all over
oh Joe the dogs upstairs already
“ and you figured it out – the solution
to my whole life is bullshit
And you try to tell me not to think
just suck and 
so I write – a sonnet  to your pussy
slick pussy the essay 
by whipper snapper
I look around the stark kitchen
realize the breadbasket iz a little out of 
alignment so I fix it. Kick the fleabag cat look out on Washington 
square and I start thinking about a  still born child
Who was that?!?!
lik it up
the idea by the Madonna
Bullshit
the complete compiled works
 ed. Jon Watkins
The man who we fucked in a truckstop toilet
last week when we’d gone to smoke heroin and ideas
and lick it up, every last drop
Ideas
book the new york 
times calls“revolutiony”
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 31
The Chronicles of Tim 
PART I - Tim 
Timothy Cutlass stretched out on the divan. The sun had surpassed its 
afternoon crest in the Arizona sky and Timothy longed for the cool shade of the organ 
pipe cactus he and a neighbor had attempted to transplant from the other side of the 
trailer park. The enormous plant had died some days after the transfer, having lost 
most of its root system during the excavation. It now lay awkwardly on its side - like a 
discarded Christmas tree - near the refuse collection site a few yards away from where 
Timothy was relaxing. Inside their trailer he could hear his wife, Tina-Sue, rattling 
away over the pots and pans. He craned his neck toward the screen door and yelled. 
“Tina-Sue! You fixin’ to make dinner already?” he said. There was no reply. More 
pots clanked. Tin. Tin. Kang-plink. “Humph.” 
Tim was ready to sprawl back out and take a nap when he heard a rattle in the 
pile of beer cans next to his sofa. He didn’t think much of it; just the sagging sofa 
breaking another seam and lowering his napping post ever closer to the desert sand. 
He shook it off and realized how tired he was. Tina-Sue would have another lame 
dinner of potatoes and eggs ready within the hour he figured. Just enough time for a 
quick nap. He propped his head up to see just over the dead cactus plant Pin-pop tat. 
tat.. tat... and it was off. 
Out from underneath the divan and through the aluminum cans raced a 
creature the likes of which Timothy Cutlass had never before seen in his life. It flew out 
past the refuse collection site and into the desert. It was massive creature with a single 
head and three bodies. The bodies twisted down into a single pair of legs and there 
appeared to be a set of wings emerging from it back. This was no dog or wily-platypus, 
Tim thought. He knew, as most people in his neighborhood did, that the wily-platypus 
rarely left the Euphorbia Cactus Forest in the daylight. And even if it had, it did not 
move like this. This creature had a tail four meters long and as it zipped out into the 
desert hills the tail trailed along in the path of its zig-zagging owner, fading and 
disappearing like the trail of a sparkler in the dark. It turned a sharp left at the top of a 
hill crest and zoomed along the horizon giving Timothy a chance to see the black fur 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 32
coat shine under the oppressing sun. It ran on all fours with the hunched-shoulder 
rhythms of a rabbit. But again, too large to be mistaken for any kind of rodent; too large 
to have been hiding under the divan, Tim thought. 
Then it stopped. 
The creature stopped dead in its tracks out in the distance. It turned to face the 
direction of Tim and raised up on its hind legs. The wings spread out magnificently in a 
display and Tim squinted against the glare of the sun, disbelieving his eyes. He looked 
back over his shoulder to see if his wife was witness to any of this. There was only the 
persistent clatter of cookware. When he turned back to the horizon, the creature was 
still there. It was looking at Tim and it began to make a little motion. One dangling 
claw-arm began motioning. It swung in tiny circles, signaling  Tim to follow. 
“Now, what the hell...?” said Tim. 
Tim scratched his mussed hair and tried to shake the image from his brain. He 
looked over at his dead cactus tree for a moment, trying to focus on something else, 
and back to where the creature was still swinging that one little arm, now more 
frantically. He tried to gather his senses. The only reasonable thing to do in situations 
like these, Tim thought, is to put a bullet in that little turd and parade its carcass 
around the neighborhood in the back of his truck so that everyone would believe his 
wild, hallucinatory story. 
When Tim was a child, living with his aunt in the suburbs of Michigan, he had 
been visited in a similarly mysterious fashion by an equally unbelievable creature. He 
had been led on a three day journey of youthful self-discovery led by whimsical toe-
headed creatures through forests and mazes. Or so that’s what he had told everyone 
when they found him unconscious and naked on the shores of Crooked Lake. The 
greater part of the truth of that memory had been repressed by years of therapy and 
the subsequent drama of the “disappearance” of his uncle Ted. What Tim did 
remember was his impotent inability to convince anyone to believe him about his 
adventures. He had been ridiculed and harassed. But that wasn’t going to happen 
again. This time he was going to capture, kill and stuff his proof. 
In a large tool box under the trailer Tim kept his hunting rifle. He took a long 
look at the creature, still perched up on its hind legs, and slipped quietly over to the 
tool box and removed a Browning a-bolt Eclipse hunting rifle, traditionally used to 
hunt the seasonal aquafurrs that terrorized local Arizonans near the border-town of 
Naco. 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 33
Every year local trailer parks organized expeditions of out-of-work trailerites to 
encamp the surrounding area of the town and defend it against the organized raids of 
the aquafurrs. The origins of the species have never been discovered and the world at 
large has never invested much interest in helping to defend the local town in light of a 
more self-serving, vested interest involving the annual slaughter of thousands of 
potential border-crossing Mexicans by the unchecked populations of this creature. 
The aquafurrs thrive in the harsh desert conditions underground and emerge around 
mid-August for a feeding massacre. Casualties run high each season. 
Tim leaned against a trailer tire and loaded the rifle. 
When he returned his attention to the creature on the hill he caught just the tail 
end disappearing over the ridge. It was leading Tim away from the trailer park. 
Tim got up, slung the rifle over his shoulder, grabbed a six pack of beers from the 
cooler next to his divan and began to trek out to where the beast had vanished over the 
horizon. He didn’t bother telling Tina-Sue what he was about to do. She would just 
argue and remind him what a no-good, rock-sucking waste of a man he was. The last 
time he tried to leave to hunt a critter that ransacked their food stuffs, Tina-Sue shot 
him in the foot. She said he wasn’t man enough to stand up to a raccoon, let alone the 
wily-platypus that had invaded their home. 
He was going to show her. He was going to bring home the head of a new 
creature that no one had ever seen before. Maybe even make the newspapers. 
By the time he had reached the summit, where he had seen the animal go over, 
Tim was out of breath - and thirsty. He opened a beer and looked around for his prey. 
At the bottom of the hill began a thick cactus grove where Dahlias flowered in an array 
of blues and purples all over the Echinocerous Cacti. Tim could find no trace of the 
creature, but there was a path leading through the grove - the obvious place for the 
hunted to try to hide. He descended the hill and approached the entrance to the grove. 
Near the entrance a willowspider crouched on a cactus and eyed Tim as he stopped 
just short of the threshold. Tim saw the arachnid before it could leap into his neck. He 
raised his rifle and dropped the end of the barrel point-blank in the face of the spider, 
taking a long swig of his beer and laughing as the spider switched its eyes left and 
right considering its escape. The willowspider trembled and inched one leg backwards, 
as if to say ‘You win. I won’t burrow into your neck and plant my babies in your spine. 
Forget I seen you, Mister.’ But Tim began to tighten his grip on the stock and he 
squeezed. 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 34
Something smashed Tim’s head from behind. The gun had not gone off and he 
was lying face up, his skull cracked and his head resting in a cactus patch. The 
willowspider bounced away into the bramble of cacti and the black creature Tim had 
been chasing was now standing over him, blocking the sun - creating a shadow of its 
face. 
“Tim, you stupid son-of-a-bitch,” it said. “We’ve got work to do and you’re playing 
stick’em-holderup with willowspiders!” 
The creature stepped out of the sun from where Tim was lying and picked up the 
rifle and the beers. Now up close, Tim could see that it wasn’t fur the creature adorned, 
but something black and rubbery, much more like a seal coat than traditional 
mammal fur. His head was spinning and throbbing from the attack, but he managed to 
pull himself up into a sitting position for a moment before scrambling to his feet when 
it finally occurred to him that this thing was speaking to him. Tim was about to 
contest, but before he could stammer a word, the creature interrupted him. 
“I am Geryon, the great and fair master of an estate just beyond the cactus grove 
where you have been chosen to work for me. As I am a fair master, I will set you to just 
one task per day, five days per week,” Geryon said. At this point Tim found that they 
had already begun walking along the trail through the cactus grove. Geryon was 
behind him, the rifle pressed into his back. The soaring pain in Tim’s head had begun 
to subside as they put the miles behind them. It seemed to Tim as though they had 
been walking for hours already. Geryon continued to speak as they marched. “If you 
have set yourself to your tasks well, there will be rewards that on the sixth and seventh 
day you may enjoy. For you see, I have seven daughters who get very lonely on my 
estate. Each week that you are successful in performing the tasks to which I have set 
you, you will be allowed the company of one of my daughters. As they range in age, so 
too do they in their temperaments. The youngest, Abigail, you will find is quite easy to 
get along with while the eldest, Gabriella, is what one may refer to as a ‘stubborn crop.’” 
Geryon stopped talking. 
Timothy had stopped walking. 
“What halts our progress, Tim?” Geryon said. Tim didn’t say anything for a 
moment. The sun had nearly gone down to the west, the direction they had been 
heading. The flickettes were just beginning their evening serenade beneath the cover of 
the prickly moss. Choo-shooka-shooka-ree... choo-shooka-shooka-ree! Geryon jabbed 
Tim in the lower back with his rifle and Tim swung abruptly around. 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 35
“What makes you think I want to go work for you on your estate?” he screamed. 
“What makes you think I want to try and please your daughters? I’ve got a wife! I’ve got 
a home!” He was breathing heavily and the eyes flooded with tears. Geryon could see 
that he was upset. 
“Look, Tim,” he began. “Do you love your wife? Or rather, does she love you?” Tim 
shook his head. “And do you have a job to go back to? Do you have any family that is 
going to miss you?” Again, Tim shook his head. He realized that he had nothing back in 
that trailer park worth missing. And nothing back there was going to miss him. He had 
to concede that he had nothing to lose by joining the Geryon creature on his estate, 
taking up the daily tasks and setting himself to pleasing the seven daughters. 
“This is why you have been chosen, Tim. You are a worthless and unwanted sage. 
The winds of misfortune and decay swirl all about you. You do not know your true 
potential and have thus set your life to whiling away the hours on your divan in a 
loveless marriage looking forward only to the annual trips to Naco to fight the 
aquafurrs. You are by no means a great man, but because of your apathy, you do not 
know that you are not a great man either.” Geryon ceased speaking and looked down to 
where Tim was curled up on the path, crying. 
Geryon, being the great and fair master that he was, refrained from the urge to 
kick him in his side and instead picked him up in his huge rodent arms and again 
began their travels back to his estate. He decided to let Tim rest a while, for they had 
many days travel yet to make. The cactus grove was enormous and the path 
treacherous. 
 
Five days had now passed and they arrived at a clearing. Tim was hungry and 
dehydrated and Geryon had long ago consumed all the beers. Over the last few days, 
Geryon had explained the rest of the situation to Tim, picking back up where Tim had 
interrupted to have his little meltdown resulting in him sobbing like an unwanted 
puppy in a hailstorm. As it was, Tim was to complete a single, reasonable task each day 
for five days out of the week and on the sixth and seventh day, he would be granted the 
courtship of one of Geryon’s seven daughters beginning with the youngest. If he were 
able to please each daughter successively and successfully for the seven weeks 
required to do so, Tim would then be granted the keys to the Estate of Geryon, as 
Geryon currently called it. The beast explained that in his age he would not be fit to 
rule his estate for many more years to come. He had never had a son, and his 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 36
daughters were far too wayfaring and fragile to handle such an affair. Tim would 
inherit the estate and the responsibility of the seven daughters upon satisfying the 
demands of Geryon. 
Tim, realizing the futility of his life previous, had agreed to the proposition, 
though wasn’t at all certain that he had any choice in the matter while Geryon still 
held his rifle and rested it between his shoulder blades the rest of the hike to the 
estate. 
Once in the clearing Tim could see up on a great hill just before him a house that 
must have occupied the space of thirty trailer parks. And not just thirty trailer parks 
across, but thirty trailer parks high. Despite his fatigue and desire for water and rest, 
Tim let out a great whistle. 
“You sure could fit a lot of nice trailers on an estate like this,” he said. It was 
really all that Tim knew. 
Once inside, he was given a meal, a bath and a bed to rest in. Geryon instructed 
him that his first task would begin the very next day, and he was allowed to sleep. 
When the sun rose, the cock crowed and Tim awoke to find Geryon hovering over 
his bed. The bed was comfy and after several days travel, Tim wished to remain in the 
comfort of the warm, clean blankets for several hours longer, but he knew that he had 
agreed to perform the tasks of Geryon, so he swung his feet our of the bed and stood 
before his over-shadowing master. 
“Prepare for me my morning cup of coffee!” he bellowed. Tim fell right back into 
the bed. He was startled by the seemingly unnecessary force with which such a simple 
demand had been delivered. He sat up in the bed and grinned. 
“Is that all?” he asked, perhaps a little too familiarly. 
Geryon roared back, “You will set yourself to the task each day that I demand of 
you and you will ask no further questions about it!” 
Tim scrambled out of bed past Geryon and ran ten flights of stairs down to the 
kitchen to brew the beast his coffee. Though Tim had brewed coffee literally hundreds 
of times before, he made certain to follow the instructions on the package. He packed 
the ground beans into the measuring cup and leveled off the top. He measured the 
water carefully, being sure not to lose a drop in the transfer. Then he let it brew and he 
waited. When it was ready, Geryon came strolling into the room, drawn by the aroma of 
the roasted beans. He sat down at a table near the window and stared out, waiting for it 
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 37
to cool. After an imperceptibly long period of time had passed and Tim had come to 
grow quite nervous, Geryon raised the steaming cup to his lips and slurped. He said 
nothing, but kept staring out the window. Tim wanted to leave. He wanted to run, to beg 
forgiveness. He wanted to know if he had satisfied the beast! At last, Geryon spoke. 
Without looking away from the window, he said, “The rest of the day is yours to do with 
as you please.”
Used Gravitrons Quarterly Page 38
Contributors
Nathan Moody spent most of his life in Twin Falls, Idaho but currently lives in Boise, 
Idaho. He is completing a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Boise State University. 
If he had a choice, sidewalks would be wider.
Stephen Gere lives and works in Boise, Idaho
Bill Gates is a homeless man who's saved up enough money for a house but previously 
lost his identity in a game of chess that he's been playing himself at and so looks 
nothing like the picture on his birth certificate.
Bruce Connors is a 26 year old cook and literature student.
P.A. Valle is a cuddly curmudgeon to some, an asshole and nebbish to others.
Mike Wiley is currently tending bar and making rock and roll music in Brooklyn, NY, 
where he lives with his fiancée.
Keith Zimmerman is Used Gravitron Quarterly's resident autobiographical essayist. 
Matt Hayes is currently enrolled in the Asian Studies Master's Program at the 
University of Oregon. In his free time, he enjoys thinking differently, worrying, and 
eating broccoli like there's no tomorrow.
Eamonn Park hails originally from Boise, Idaho. His photography captures, admires, 
and criticizes the health and beauty of life. With great affection for analog, and a 
necessary concession to digital techniques, his work marries old and new. Eamonn 
likes to cook, supports NPR and holds a BFA from Cornish College of the Arts in 
Seattle, Washington.
